what the trade war the tar wars are
shown uh has shown as well the US is not
necessarily a safe heaven for uh for
European kind of uh uh investment in a
way [snorts] is still the US again the
most dynamic uh economy in the world is
a place where you have to be invested
but is it not I don't think we can say
the US is the safe heaven that it was
just a few years ago
Hey everyone, welcome to another episode
of WSJ's Take on the Week. I'm Telus
Deeos and I'm joined this week by a
special guest who actually sits about
yay far from me in the newsroom.
>> I'm Hannah Erin Lang. I'm a market
reporter here at the Wall Street
Journal.
>> Well, Hannah, welcome to Take on the
Week. And you joined for a very busy
episode. We've got wild markets news. Uh
big stuff going on in the world.
Economic data is back. We've been we've
been wondering when we can talk about it
again and now we can. Well, before we
get into that, we want your help,
audience, for our upcoming episodes. We
want your questions, not only for our
big take on the year episode, but also
what should we be talking about in 2026.
Think of some topics. Think of some
things that you want answers on. We've
got some big things happening next year.
We're going to have probably more AI,
not just in the stock market, but in the
bond market, we as we've been talking
about. we've got, say, Federal Reserve
Chair Jerome Powell. His term is ending
as chair. I'm sure that will be big
news. And what does that mean for the
future of monetary policy in the United
States? Uh, and then we've got, you
know, other things that help the market.
Uh, we've got who's going to win the
Super Bowl, for example, the AFC or the
NFC. What will hemlines be? Hannah, I
know you've got a big theory about pop
music, right? And what that means for
markets, what's going on in music? Yeah,
I've actually reported on it a couple
times, but there's a sort of pop culture
theory that when the economy is bad, the
pop music gets really good. So, who
knows? Might depend on what's on the
radio next year as well.
>> All right. Well, we'll have to get the
WSJ's music critics in here to tell us
what's going to be popular in the music
so we know what's going on in the
markets. So, send us your feedback at
take on the week at wsj.com or drop a
comment in in your venue of choice. All
right, in the here and now and the more
prosaic, we've got a pretty interesting
week for the AI trade. We started to see
what I think a lot of people were
calling the popping of the AI bubble or
at least the shrinking of the AI bubble.
>> This Nvidia earnings report was even
more highly anticipated than other
Nvidia earnings reports, which was
already a kind of financial super bowl
for the market. Um, and you know, based
on what we saw when the chipmaker did
report earnings, it seems like investors
like what they see.
>> And actually, you had one interesting
moment where Jensen Hong actually sort
of used the word bubble. I don't know if
you believe that, you know, saying it
kind of tempts fate or if maybe you sort
of like, you know, kind of diffuse it by
sort of saying the word. But he actually
said he said there's been a lot of talk
about an AI bubble. Though he also said
from our vantage point, we see something
very different. uh he said that he sees
a virtuous cycle of AI and he said that
AI is doing everything everywhere all at
once.
>> I think it was really interesting to see
him address those concerns directly
instead of maybe talk around it. And I
think the question heading into the
weeks to come is you know if this report
kind of puts the AI trade exactly back
on track are we going to sort of see
more choppiness in the weeks aheading
into the end of the year? We know that
stocks tend to perform pretty well in
the final weeks of the year. You know,
the so-called Santa Claus rally, if you
will.
>> Yeah. I think it's hard to box the AI
trade in just what does it mean for AI
companies because with the amount of
money that that companies are spending
on investing in data centers and other
things, it's really an economic question
as well for the broader US economy. And
so the question is if AI is going to
slow down, what does that mean for the
rest of the market? And so I think
that's why you saw really a pretty broad
move in the markets over the last couple
of weeks. So, you didn't just see AI
falling, you saw all kinds of stocks.
You even saw some things that have been
doing well as a kind of risk protector
trade, right? Gold uh was was was down.
Bitcoin uh is is is down pretty
significantly. So, so I think it's hard
to just sort of isolate the AI
trade from what's what people are
thinking about in the rest of the
economy.
>> One thing our colleagues at the Journal
have reported on is this so-called
wealth effect where Americans sort of
see their portfolios rising in value. of
course that's broadly driven by the AI
trade this year and then you know they
feel better about kind of the wealth
that they have and they go out and spend
more. What you've been seeing over the
past year is that these uh high-income
or wealthy consumers are driving a bulk
of that spending uh while while other
you know working-class or middle-ass
Americans might be experiencing a very
different economic reality and it's you
know it might be very well connected to
how well the stock market has done this
year. Yeah, we got some interesting
feedback to recent comments that we made
on this podcast about this wealth
effect, whether the rising stock market,
which is really in effect rising AI
stocks. They drive so much of what
happens in the market, whether those
stocks were making people feel richer
and ready to spend. And a lot of people
wrote to us uh like in the comments of
some of our videos that um we were a
little out of touch to say that, right?
They they were surprised to hear that
people might be feeling richer. And you
know, one person said the top may be
feeling richer, but the average person
does not. And that's why I think what
will also be interesting to look at,
look, we've got some earnings coming up
this week. We've got Dell Technologies,
for example. That is a company that has
in the past talked about how AI could be
a driver of its business. So, we'll
continue to get reads on AI
directly. In addition, we're getting a
bunch of updates from retailers and
consumer staples companies like JM
Smuckers. They of course make a lot of
things you find in the grocery store.
And we've got a lot of retailers like
Kohl's and Eper Crumbian and Fitch. Uh
we also just this past week had earnings
from Target and Walmart. And while the
headline number on Walmart was pretty
good and increase in same store sales, I
thought that some of their comments
about what they were seeing under the
hood were interesting. And what they
said was that they were seeing a lot of
increased market share that is people
are coming from other stores to shop at
Walmart. They were seeing weakness, some
weakness starting to form in their lower
inome consumers and they were seeing a
big bigger pickup from higher income
consumers.
>> There's a lot of questions out there
about the health of the US consumer and
we're also heading into a season that
is, you know, probably the most
important for retailers and and for a
readout on how comfortable consumers are
spending right now, which is the holiday
shopping season.
>> Black Friday coming up, Black Friday.
So, I mean, we won't get data from, you
know, Walmart or Target right away on
that, but we do typically get sort of
thirdparty data providers telling us,
you know, how how many shoppers sort of
hit the store shelves and shopped
online. And so, I think that will be a
really important gauge of, you know, how
comfortable consumers feel spending
right now and again, how much of it sort
of spans the income spectrum because we
spent a lot of time talking about this
idea of the K-shaped economy, right? Um,
and
>> K-shaped, meaning some people are going
up, some people are going down.
>> Exactly. Exactly. And I think, you know,
to our commenters's point, like this
does mean that you can experience the
economy extremely differently depending
on, you know, how much you make, how
much you have in the stock market, the
assets you own. And so I think I'll I'll
be watching this holiday shopping season
to to get a readout on, you know, how
much consumers are spending because
after all, this is sort of, you know,
the engine of the US economy and the the
health of the macroeconomic picture is
something that myself and I know
investors have been watching closely as
we head into next year, especially when
the job market is looking pretty fragile
right now.
>> What's relevant for investors here is
the question of if they feel like they
need to escape the AI trade, right? if
they feel like there's there's there's
been a bubble, things have top ticked,
that there's overbuilding, whatever
whatever their concern might be. We've
talked about a lot of them on this show,
where can they hide? One place you might
think to do is in consumer staples.
Again, those are companies that uh sell
stuff that people need to buy no matter
what's going on.
>> What else could be a defensive play for
investors?
>> Well, I think a big one that's already
been playing out quite a bit this year
is going global. When you look at the
MSCI World Index, which includes the
United States as well as other markets
around the world, the top stocks in that
index are big AI companies because they
are gigantic companies in the US. So
just a global basket is basically a
basket that's dominated by US AI stocks.
>> If you leave the US, if you look at the
MCI world XUS index, you get a very
different mix of companies, right? you
get big healthcare companies, you get uh
oil and gas, you get banks, you know,
it's a th those things make up a larger
part of your investment basket. And
while of course you can't, you know,
totally hide from AI, there are many,
you know, companies not only in the AI
business, but that could benefit from it
or be hurt by it uh outside the US. It's
a trade that has worked quite well so
far for investors who are worried about
the US, not just from an AI perspective,
but also might be thinking about dollar.
We've talked about the dollar debasement
trade here. We've talked about other
concerns about the US, the US's not just
fiscal situation, but also the economy,
politics, etc. So, so far this year, the
S&P 500 index is up about 15% year-to-
date. Pretty good. The MCI World XUS
index is up 25%. The best defense is a
good offense, right? And so, that's how
companies, you know, investors who have
gone abroad in search of those returns
have paid off so far. But it's hard to
just say do that, right? It's not easy
to just buy one thing that gets you the
rest of the world. So the question is
how investors should do that. So to
answer that question, we had an
interesting conversation earlier this
week with Luca Powellini. He is the
chief global strategist at Pikay Asset
Management. They're based in Geneva, but
serve investors all over the world. And
we're going to have that conversation
when we come back right after the break.
Welcome back. We're joined by Luca
Powellini. He is Pict Asset Management's
chief strategist and we're going to talk
about the outlook for global stocks for
investors particularly in the US who are
looking to diversify outside of their
home market. So we know on this show
that a lot of investors have been
looking abroad lately. They've been
diversifying their stock holdings to
other markets. And we know that so far
that trade has been doing pretty well.
The MSCI World Index, excluding the US,
has pretty significantly outperformed
the S&P 500 so far this year. And a lot
of that has been motivated by things
happening right now. We're talking about
tariffs, other political disruptions in
the US that might be derailing the US's
economic outlook versus other countries.
But Luca, I think you've got a longer
term perspective on this. You don't
think this is just a 2025 kind of trade.
Why is this a long-term move for
investors to diversify outside of the US
where they've been so heavily
overinvested the last few years?
>> I think there are a few reason why uh we
think investors should invest more of
their money outside of the US. The most
obvious one is related to risk
management. you have now if you look at
the Msei
um all country index 64 to 65% of the
index is in US stocks then obviously if
you're in the US this maybe is less of
an issue but if you're living in Europe
or in Japan a huge chunk of your for
example your pension is linked to a
country which is far away in a different
currency also relatively expensive so
there is an element of diversification
that we have to take into consider
federation. The second point is that
it's difficult for me to believe that
the US economy will continue to
outperform in the same way that it has
done over the past 10 years.
>> I know one thing that was talked a lot
about earlier this year was whether or
not European countries might start to
catch up to the US in terms of fiscal
spending and other borrowing. We've
talked about the sort of re uh
investment in the European defense
sector for example and I wonder if
that's part of what Pict has been
writing about called the great
convergence where it seems like you're
arguing that markets around the world
are going to start to look a little bit
more like each other. Tell us more about
what this great convergence is and does
that mean that you know European
countries might start spending a little
more and catching up to US growth? First
of all, let me say that we are talking
about convergence in terms of economic
growth uh economic policy uh valuation
as well and also performance of asset
markets and you're totally right Germany
is moving from fiscal austerity or
fiscal expansion. Now the numbers are
quite significant but the most relevant
aspect is the philosophical aspect of
it. there is a significant change in the
mindset of German the German government.
They realize that they are effectively
uh not investing enough not only in
defense but also in infrastructure and
the rest and they are effectively uh
lagging behind the rest of the world.
But that's not the only reason. This is
one of the reason why we expect this
convergence to happen. Partly also
because if you look outside of Europe,
China is kind of stabilizing after a
very very difficult five years and Japan
slowly seems to be moving into a more
businessfriendly kind of um environment.
So it's not just Europe.
>> I do wonder though if tariffs are going
to cause economic challenges in the
United States for example, how much of
that does bleed over into global growth?
Well, I mean there is no question that
when you look at tariffs first of all
that's a negative for everyone because
we tend to forget that tariffs are
effectively taxes paid by US importers.
So the US consumption share of GDP is 68
in China is 40 in Europe is 50. We need
some kind of adjustment there and tarist
will in a way create this kind of
environment. If there is a slowdown in
the US, everybody else will suffer. I
feel though that the US has less room
for fiscal expansion. And for that
reason, if there is a slowdown, the US
probably suffer more than the rest of
the world. So what if the US does
actually continue on a path of sort of
fiscal expansionism as well as
expansionist sort of monetary policy?
Does that mean that the US could
outperform for at least some of the next
10 years?
>> No, I don't think so. I think if that's
the case, let's say that the US
administration will continue to run
deficits close to 7%. And the Fed will
be let's say incline, push, force to cut
rates, I think the the end game will be
much higher inflation. So I think that
this is the what the US economic policy
will be more fiscal expansion,
interest rate cuts, we call it fiscal
dominance. I don't think it's going to
be particularly bullish for stocks. I
think it's going to be bad for the US. I
think it's going to be definitely very
bad for the dollar.
>> I'm glad you brought up the dollar
because when the US dollar weakens that
just reflexively increases the value of
foreign earnings and foreign uh stock
prices just in US dollar terms. And so
how much of the outperformance of
investments in Europe or Japan, other
countries for US investors has been
about the dollar and will continue to be
about the dollar? I know we've all been
talking about this idea of a debasement
trade lately. Is that a part of the
diversification thesis for US investors
for the next decade?
>> Absolutely. Because when we look at the
expected return in local currency terms
is not a big difference between Europe
and the rest of the world. The dollar
the weakness of the dollar in our view
will continue. The conventional wisdom
is that we can't predict the movements
of currency. That's true in the short
term, but in the long term, it's
actually incredibly easy. If you just
look at the performance of the Swiss
Frank, the Swiss Frank has been
basically in a secular uptrend uh in the
past 30 or 40 years for a very simple
reason because you have almost the same
growth of the US thanks to immigration.
You have no inflation, primary budget
surplus, current account surplus. And
you know that's why the currency is on a
straight uh line upwards. If you look at
the past you know 5 10 years US growth
has been very strong but when we look at
the next 5 to 10 years we see inflation
being actually higher than growth. And
what is really important when we look at
the performance of a currency is how
strong the economic growth and how low
or high inflation is. Higher inflation
is bad for a currency. High growth is
positive.
>> And conversely, what does that mean for
non US investors? One big theme of US
exceptionalism for recent years has of
course been money from from other
markets coming into the US. Are they
also thinking about diversification in
part because they're going to benefit
from the opposite of that dollar
position, right? If the dollar weakens,
they don't want to be holding dollar
assets. So, what are what are those
conversations like? Europeans tends to
have uh a lot of uh private wealth
invested in stock and bonds obviously
and a lot of this is invested in passive
forms right so when you invest in
passive forms let's say and you and you
buy an ETF a global ETF you end up let's
say for European investors to have
almost 70%
of your wealth not only in the US but
effectively in 10 stocks they're all in
the same sectors so the concentration
risk is significant and you know uh we
are uh quite bullish still on AI AI
teams tech stocks but there is an
element of risk that we have to take
into consideration also there is another
element I think that is that is
important is that when you look at the
at the global uh the macro outlook
again there is this perception that is
becoming and is very very risky and you
know what the trade war the targets are
shown has shown as well the US is not
necessarily a safe heaven for uh for
European kind of uh uh investment in a
way is still the US again the most
dynamic uh economy in the world is a
place where you have to invested but is
it not I don't think we can say the US
is the safe heaven that it was just a
few years ago
>> Luca I want to talk a little bit more
about the specifics of diversifying your
US stock investments uh in the US most
people buy the S&P 500. Not sure exactly
what people are thinking about when they
talk about diversifying globally. Is
that just the MSCIXUS
index or should people be thinking about
specific markets uh particular stock
markets where they should be buying that
market's index? And what about other
asset classes? Should those be
diversifying too?
>> [snorts]
>> First of all, let me say that when you
look now and we have, you know, a lot of
data on this, um, an average US investor
has roughly 70 or 75%
invested in stocks and I'm pretty sure
that a good 80 or 90% of this is
invested in the US. This is the starting
point partly because the US uh, stock
market has done so well, but also for
other reason, right? There are no
obvious alternatives to the US. So now
the point is this when we talk about
diversification it's not only divers
diversification away from US stocks I
think what um investors could do
especially in the US is to take some
money out of US US equities let's say
10% put part of this 10% in non US
equities but also in bonds especially
corporate bonds and gold so it's
important to highlight that it's not
just US equities against non US equities
is also to diversify for different asset
classes, different regions.
>> But some markets do look like they've
got some nice potential. Uh in the 2025
uh outlook uh that that Pict published
earlier this year, uh it listed the
expected returns for a bunch of
different markets and for example,
Japanese equities actually had the
highest expected sort of average return
over the next 5 years. Is there
something particular about Japan for a
US investor that that looks attractive?
Japan is a typical market where I think
the currency factor is going to be
particularly important. The yen is cheap
on almost any measure. The Bank of Japan
is one of the few central banks that I
rates. Um Japanese and that's really
also very important. The Japanese market
has been for two decades basically in a
phase of uh deep uh deflation and now
it's back to normal. So Japan has become
in a way investable again cheap
valuation decent growth but it makes all
the difference at this significant uh
undervaluation of the yen which is
basically due to the fact that interest
rate in Japan are much lower than the US
but the gap will close. So again uh I
think is valuation is growth but also
some pro business reforms more retail
investors investing in in in Japanese
stocks but I have to say that a lot of
this outperform that we expect is going
to come from the currency uh
appreciation of the yen. Emerging
markets also rate pretty highly in some
of those expected returns. I think the
returns have been a little disappointing
probably for some investors who who
bought them in their long-term
portfolios uh over the last few years.
Do you think emerging markets are poised
to kind of regain that status as as
among the highest returning in the world
for a for a dollar-based investor?
>> Yes, I think though emerging market are
not the emerging markets of the '9s. In
a way, they're safer bets. It's very
difficult to put all emerging market in
one single pot. I mean if you think
about the difference between for example
India where we think there is massive
potential India is probably the only
market in EM big market that you buy
from a top-down perspective because of
the growth that the Indian economy will
generate then you have other markets
like let's say especially China that to
be addressed more from a bottom up
perspective and others where Korea and
Taiwan they're very tech oriented which
I think they will
very well. And then there are of course
the turnaround story potentially in
Brazil, in Latin America. So it's a very
it's not a homogeneous kind of group of
of um of markets, but they share one
thing which is very important. They have
superior growth. They have inflation
which is relative to a few years ago
pretty much under control. We see
reforms in most of them and critically
we are going to expect a much weaker
dollar going forward which of course
will help emerging markets. Will
emerging markets boom? No. Will emerging
markets outperform especially the US?
Yes. And this, by the way, is also for
emerging market bonds where we see in
fact almost more potential than emerging
market equities because you have
interest rate cuts, good valuation,
inflation under control. So I think yes,
we are going to see a rating of emerging
markets um overall, but again uh you
have to be selective. We've got one last
question for Luca Powini of Pict Asset
Management when we come back from a
quick break. [music]
Welcome back. We've got one last
question for Luca Powellini. And I know
I know we try and keep this brief, but
I've I've got kind of a big question
here because and this is the thing that
that
concerns me about the idea of
international diversification or maybe
it's the main feature of it depending on
your point of view. So I just want to
highlight if you look at the MSCI world
index which includes the US the top 10
holdings in it are at least when I
looked at them very recently were
basically a list of AI heavyweights.
Nvidia was the top one followed by
Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Google was in
there, Meta, etc. Right? So when you're
buying the MCI global index you're
buying something that's a little bit
like the S&P 500 and that it's very
heavily AI weighted. When you're buying
the MSCIXUS
index, you're getting way less of that.
Some of the largest holdings are drug
companies, food companies, there's a
there's a bank in there. So, what I want
to ask is, are you just kind of going
short AI if you diversify out of the US?
>> No, because we believe that AI is
transformative. We believe that AI will
boost productivity uh across all the
economic kind of um economic areas. We
do believe though that now we have seen
the first wave of AI when obviously have
all the tech companies uh benefiting
from the first trend. But then this the
benefit of AI will spread out spread out
to industrials
um you know utilities because you need a
lot of energies um materials. So once
the AI kind of waves goes into becomes
more mature, many more companies will
benefit from that. But also within AI,
we do believe for example that Chinese
Chinese tech company will also benefit
massively from AI. So what we are
actually doing, we don't think that the
story will will fade. We don't think
there will be a crash in AI. We think
that we are just at the beginning of
something which is very transformative.
We just don't think that the gain will
happen only in pen stocks and US stocks.
I think that's that's the main the main
story behind our our sector. We still
believe that tech will outperform but
not just in the US and again AI will
spread to other markets, other parts of
the economy and they will this boost to
productivity. Everybody will in a way
enjoy this and I think markets that have
been lagging
will close the gap and that's part of
our convergence trade as well.
>> All right. So diversifying
geographically is also diversifying the
kind of AI bet you have. Interesting.
Well, a ton for everyone to think about.
Luca Powini, thanks so much for joining
us.
>> Thank you.
>> [music]
>> Um, okay. Let me fix my my I know my
[music] bangs are just K-shaped right
now. [laughter]
[music]